# Minecraft `server.properties` property dataset

This repository contains a machine-readable dataset of information about key/value pairs in Minecraft Server's `server.properties` file. You can consume it either as an npm module or by just parsing the JSON in the repository.

Currently, only Java edition data is included in this repository.

## Data format

The root object in `data.json` is an object. Each key represents a key available in `server.properties`, and the value is an object representing various things about that key. Each subkey is described below.

### `default`

The default value generated by Minecraft Server.

### `type`

The type of the value: `number`, `boolean`, `string`, or `enum`. Note that the possible values of enums are not currently included.

### `affects`

What aspect of server operation this option affects. Possible values are:

* `operations`: affects system-level server operational parameters. For example, configuration for how the server interacts with the network.
* `world`: affects the way the world is generated. Every `"affects": "world"` parameter will permanently affect newly-generated chunks, that is, if you change these parameters, already-generated chunks will not reflect the new settings.
* `gameplay`: affects in-game rules and gameplay. These parameters are ephemeral; that is, if they are changed, the old value will have no long-lasting effect (unlike `world`).
* `policy`: affects in-game permissions. For example, what powers ops have, whether the whitelist is enabled, etc.
* `other`: parameters that do not fit neatly into the other categories.

## `meta.json`

`meta.json` contains meta-information about the dataset. Currently it has only one key, `schema-version`, which will be increased every time the schema is updated in a backwards-incompatible way. It will not be changed if backwards-compatible additions are made.

## npm module

To include the dataset in your project:

    $ npm install --save minecraft-server.properties-prop-db

To get at the data:

    var minecraftServerDb = require('minecraft-server.properties-prop-db');

To get at the meta-info:

    var metaInfo = require('minecraft-server.properties-prop-db/meta');

## Author

AJ Jordan <alex@strugee.net>

## License

Creative Commons Zero
